[Music]
welcome to another episode of 7-minute
marketing with Pam my name is Pam dinner
I love sharing a little dose of b2b
digital content marketing and sales
enablement seven minutes at a time so
what is the main requirement to be a
digital marketer I've been asked that
question often by traditional marketers
and the way I define traditional
marketers is that they are marketing
professionals who are not digital
natives and didn't start your marketing
careers on the digital side I usually
tell them that a key difference between
traditional and the modern marketers is
the ability to think in multi channels
in a sense of integrated marketing and
to understand the technology behind the
scenes by the way these two are related
if you understand how technology works
and integrates you'll have a holistic
view of your company's marketing and can
think strategically by connecting
different marketing dots so here is a
great example say you are a content
creator by writing weekly blog posts for
your company and you use TBHQ
a platform to plan workflow and
collaborate with the team to brainstorm
and create content from beginning to the
end your blog posts are then uploaded to
your company's website using WordPress
these blog posts are used as a part of
email campaigns run on Tripp which is an
email automation tool the next social
media managers use coschedule
to syndicate a content out to various
social media channels and drive traffic
back to your website since all the
promotion's through various channels are
coming back to the website the company
is also using Google Analytics and
tableau to analyze marketing
attributions and the performance of each
channel once the visitors is on site the
team used kickfire to see which company
comes to the site by checking their IP
addresses once we know that
the inside sales team uses discover word
inside view or women to get more
intelligence about the potential
prospect such as the email addresses
company's marketing spans or whatnot and
additional contact information so do you
see how each function uses different
technologies platforms and tools say if
you are content creator who creates
weekly blog posts using Google Analytics
you can see which channel drive most
traffic to your blog posts and say email
works very very well you can have a chat
with your email marketing manager and
understand how you can optimize your
blog post for email outreach so if you
think about it you just don't create
blog posts anymore you use other tools
to understand your audiences marketing
analytics so you can do your job better
it's important not just do your job but
understand how your job as a part of the
overall marketing so what is the best
way to understand your companies my tech
stack for many of us will only work in
subsections of overall marketing I get
that and on top of it do we really care
about the complete my tech stack well if
you want to foster in your strategic
thinking you need to understand how the
backend works and this is not something
that you can leave it to IT or junior
marketing specialists anymore the more
you know that the other people don't
know the better off you can provide
unique value add to your managers
internal stakeholders and the customers
so how to gain insight into the complete
mah tech stack
well first pick a framework that you
understand such as customer journey so
stage or even by specific marketing
functions here's I would suggest Google
stack ease Award 2019 stack ease as
he ACK IES the statues Awards give
marketers an opportunity to put their
Mahr tack on a single slide that
illustrates their stack which is the
collection of a marketing technology
tools that they use and how they
conceptualize them working together by
going through the world winning stack
each slides you'll get a sense of
different frameworks company used to
showcase their Mahr tax tax and here's a
bonus you can also see what are the
popular mod tech tools out there and
learn about the new tools that you
haven't even heard about it second once
you pick the framework to map your
company's montag start having
conversations with IT your marketing
peers internal stakeholders such as
research and analytics teams find out
what tools they use and how they use
them draw your own diagram to show how
everything ties together as the way you
understand it's like a scavenger hunt
you go to different places to find clues
to piece the puzzles together to create
your own big picture and I love doing
that by doing so you're not only
building the relationship with your
internal stakeholders and marketing
peers you get a chance to see how
everything's ties together yeah last
review your findings with your
stakeholders and we find them as you go
voila now you have a high-level view of
your company's motek stacks and you know
how the technologies work together by
knowing that you can start identifying
gaps and exploring where you can add
value most importantly be able to have
strategic and intelligent conversations
with various stakeholders using the
visual you create I can't stress enough
how important it is to understand the my
tech stacks of your company by
understanding that trust me you'll look
at marketing in a completely different
light if you have any questions you know
where to reach me just Google Pam dinner
again if you like the podcast please
leave a review and the comments on
iTunes so keep hustling my friends
you've got this
[Music]